---
layout: post
title:  Train Trip from IF
date:   2015-08-09 09:49:50 -0500
categories: fiction
contentType: fiction
desc: A peice of a novel I started in ~1999? ish.  In this passage, the character is on a cross country train trip after making some big decisions, and acting on what she believes is right, which involved murdering someone.
---

When she woke, the light was faint.  She couldn't tell if the sun was rising or setting, if she had slept five hours, or eighteen, or thirty.  She watched the dim light on the trees and dirt, and fell asleep again.

When she woke again, it was dark.  She could see in the light of a moon that the landscape had been pulled flat, the horizon distant.  The lights of the sparing buildings screamed past, at such speed that she her eyes hadn't the time to resolve onto them, they switched at mind stalting brevity from exceedingly distant to just before her eyes.  And still her eyes would not focus.  She wobbled up and found the bathroom.

She wiped her face and mouth with her shirt sleeve and found herself looking into the mirror.  Her dark eyes were heavy and the lids low.  She wiped her lips hard, pulling them to a side, and her cheeks seemed vast expanses of weak, thin skin.  She thought she could see the lines of her teeth beneath her drawn skin.  She looked into her eyes, which had never seemed so foreign.  Shrunken and sunken, and her sockets dark.  She could not help but think of the poison in her blood, self-administered like hemlock, menacing her every cell.  She saw her lips turn up in a demented smile.  It was such a terrible sight that she broke into a quick, shallow laughter.  

She threw the toilet seat down and sat down on it, her knees together, ankles apart, her arms crossed over her thighs.  She waited until she thought she was finished puking.  She leaned up against the wall next to the toilet, her body strung over the fixtures of the room like a cloth doll, limp, and tired.  So tired, she thought.  She saw her left hand rise, and her index finger trace imaginary shapes on the wall beneath her head.  At first the movements were simple, to feel the texture of the wall against her finger, but as they progressed, she noticed she was writing words on the plastic.  With her free hand, she grabbed a pen from her pocket and gave it to the other one.  The pen made the letters stay, and once they had stopped, she shifted her head and read what she had written:

a molar mind in a molecular universe a molecular mind for a molar world

She let the pen fall to the floor.  Her mouth tasted terrible and she felt like she was drooling: she repeatedly wiped her lips, and found the back of her hand even dryer than it had been before.

She stood up slowly, and picked up her pen--bad thing to leave the evidence, she thought.  She weaved her way sleepily through the aisles until she had found her seat.  She slumped herself in and watched the land pass beneath her.  Ecul, she thought.  The difference.  Ecul.

Ecul, luce, loose, loochay, you stay, eluc, my luck, ceul, creul, creul luck, ucle, chuckle.  Loose you stay my luck cruel luck chuckle.  Or six space five comma four space seven comma two space three space one comma eight period: cruel luck, my luck, you stay loose, chuckle.  A molecular mind in a molar universe a molar mind for a molecular world.  A mind for the universe in a mind in the world.  Molecular mayhem minding mending.  Undaunted ununderstanding unappealing under Unconscious undertaking upholding unanimous universe.  Worldly wan weakens waning when wading in waffling.  Forcing a fistfuck on a fossil, a fleeting flirtation a flailing, a final failing.  Cushions and corks flood the blood growing and shrinking stopping the flowing.  Narrative never not necessary, if it is, what would we want?  How could we what would we be?  The daunting is the dogma meeting the deaf daring the duo is dangerous.  Revolutionary.

The train rolled into the night.  Jamila could not read, she could not think: she could not see, she could not hear.  She watched the lights pass until her eyes fell shut.  She was immersed in vague images and a thousand voices running into and fading in and out of each other:

"You are to liberate, understanding is nothing, pain is not."  "I have not forgotten."  "Turn the tables on the fucking Pakki."  "Under the conditions set, capital, and its ism."  "A whisper through the doorway."  "For a reminder, go to the present chapter."  "The problem isn't that the apparatus fails, it is the apparatus that is a failure."  "Do you know how to make a martini?"  "It necessarily denigrates."  "Daughter named flower."  "Her name means beautiful."  "Oh she is so beautiful."  "She's really ugly."  "Yeah, but don't tell her parents you think so."  "Oh no."  "Not ethical."  "Work is ethical."  "Look after yourself into yourself, keep your bases covered."  "My imaginary and my symbolic.  Don't burn your bridges, either."  "Family."  "Green velvet."  "You cannot rely on love, or sex."  "Glowing fire."  "Everything has to be rejuvenated, reinvented, to escape the judgment."  "Yes."  "The night before."  "Condensed in the humid air."  "Afternoon finished, introduce yourself."  "All of them looked at me, I smiled politely."  "Any comatose person can."  "Fingers hidden by silver."  "Built to spill."  "Be nicer getting better slowly."  "Think about it."  "Sofa and books."  "Have not, but I seem to hear."  "Like summer in Cape Cod."

"Narrative is all and is it?"  "Black twist."  "Hot loins.  Love crime."  "Unscrupulous.  She say?"  "No longer accessible."  "Went back to the nail."  "Phallic stage."  "Messages between houses, through telephone wires."  "As an example, or for an example:"  "nipples swollen with disease," "or life passing through telephone wires."  "She reached up and pulled the disease from the tablernacle gazing upon it like."  "But I am caught up in form."  "Welcome home, my child."  "Why is mother naked?"  "Virtue is her robe."  "Then Father why are you clothed?"  "Tacos, please.  No meat, beans instead please.  No cheese, please, tomatos instead.  Do you charge extrea for guacamole?"  "He reached deep into his pockets and pulled out a."  "The unspeakable foriegn."  "The unspeaking foreigners."  "Fucking Pakkis."  "Fucking muff divers."  "Rigor leaves all in fuzziness."  "Some statements require words."  "Some people."  "Avowal renewing the convenant, speaking the yes to."  "Each and both in a new sense, failed catalyst, used up."  "But not thrown out."  "Too like Father and Father's Father."  "Vicar is staring."  "He watched the consummation and disappeared into the rectory."  "Social in the form of labor."  "It follows the link."  "It follows that the link is the simplest."  "I am curious to see how you get out of this trap."  "The whole future falls into place."

"Ancient censures raged at the sun."  "At the kids, smiling into the sun, eyes shut, warm cheeks."  "Do you hear that silence?"  "I want to talk."  "First marriage you fool."  "When you're just on your first marraige you don't know anything yet."  "Marraige"  "You're going to hate me for this."  "Lock untouched by syllable"  "He is very protective, you know."  "Edge."  "Sphere of abstraction, calculation's mysterious disappearance."  "The tears began."  "The rends and the saline drips."  "Empty living room."  "Convalescence."

When she woke again, the sun was streaming in through the window.  She felt tight, but together, as though she had collected her pieces.  She felt herself.  She stood up and grabbed her backpack, and went to the dining car.  She thought that if she really wanted to avoid paying her credit card bill, she should not use it.  But it could easily be learned that she bought a train ticket to Seattle, so she was, in all relevant ways, still free to use the card until she got to Seattle.  Thereafter, it would have to be cash, else she found herself traceable.  In the back of her mind, these precautions were actually to ensure she was not found by anyone inquiring into Tad's death, but she was not yet ready to think of it.

